# An Analysis on Social Customer Relationship Management in Health Sector: Examining Hospitals in United Kingdom. <br>

##Abstract
The development of information and communication technology (ICT) has created new 
avenues for businesses to take advantage of the cutting-edge methods of boosting customer 
happiness, customer loyalty, sales growth, and increased profitability. The healthcare sector is 
falling behind in adopting this cutting-edge approach, transforming institutional care into 
citizen-centred care with a focus on the continuum of care from prevention through 
rehabilitation. The global use of customer relationship management strategies has been 
encouraged by the internet, particularly social media. However, despite claiming to use the 
social CRM strategy, several business organisations are not fully utilising the possibilities of 
these systems. Evidence from the academic literature suggests that the implementation of this 
approach by healthcare organisations has not progressed effectively. Customers (patients) are 
continually evolving quicker than the care provided by many healthcare organisations, 
necessitating the need of a comprehensive system like social CRM to manage patients and 
families. This study looked at the top hospital in the UK to analyse how social CRM methods 
have been used in the healthcare industry. To get first-hand knowledge of the problem from 
both the customer and company perspectives, the qualitative methodology was used in this 
research. In the study, three renowned hospitals were investigated. Customer feedback was 
extracted from the NHS website, Google review, and Twitter to analyse customers' 
relationships with each hospital. Corresponding to the study's findings, the top three hospitals 
are embracing a customer-centric business model, utilising social CRM methods, as well as 
developing positive relationships with their customers and engaging in value co-creation. 
Customers, on the other hand, were discovered to place a high value on social media 
marketing's effectiveness in promoting the delivery of services that are focused on the needs 
of the customer and, as a result, influencing consumer brand resonance. The research provides 
the implications of the findings and recommendations.
